cloud.
>> All right, the audio thing is bouncing
up and down.
>> There's no video. on.
>> It's up.
>> Well, I turned my camera off because
>> the thing is
>> I mean,
oh, we do have a participant online,
Michael.
Who's Michael?
We know Michael.
Okay.
>> All right.
Let me uh
Hey, Michael. This is Wankic.
>> You're muted, Michael.
Michael's not responding.
He's muted. He has his video off. So,
>> if you guys don't mind that thing
blinking, I guess you can go ahead.
Okay.
Oh. Oh, my founder
here.
>> And I hope it's recording. I hope it's
picking up.
Stop.
>> Okay. Call to order in special meeting
on May 5th at 7:03 p.m.
Uh, roll call. Start with Marina
>> Jan
Bill
Eric Johansson
Jacobson Associates. All right. Uh
so we don't need to see Bill as a
member. Correct. Okay.
Yeah. Right.
Um any addition or change in order to
agenda now approval of minutes from last
meeting but I like to go back to item
three. Okay. And so I've got two
proposed changes. One is on approval of
the minutes. We did not approve February
3rd minutes last time. So we need to do
that tonight. And then I would also like
to add a new item to the uh new business
out
the other
Yeah,
>> we need a motion for that.
>> Okay. So, we're going to see if
commission member for tonight.
So to make a motion to uh add the two
items to the agenda
second
in favor.
Motion pass.
>> I would suggest you guys speak up
because I'm not all that confident the
microphone on that laptop is going to
pick things up for
you. Bill second. Bill second.
Okay. Approval of minutes from April 7th
radio meeting.
Anybody have any comments?
I make motion to approve the minutes
from April 7th meeting.
>> Second.
>> Hold on just a minute here. So,
as the discussion from the April 7th
meeting, the minutes needed to be
amended to add a motion
and a second to the motion
and how it cured. And I think I seconded
the motion and I think it was unanimous.
>> Yep. Did I put it in the
next?
>> What was that? said I put it in the
minutes next to other minutes.
>> Okay. So, it's it's in there now.
>> Yes.
>> I can't go back and change the minutes I
got submitted. It just carries. Yes.
Yep.
>> Okay.
So, we should be good. That should be
good. Okay. Cool. Any other comments?
>> We need a vote.
>> Yeah. Do we need a vote?
>> Uh, there's only a motion. I make a
motion already.
>> You make a motion to J second.
>> Okay.
I
>> I'll
uh there's no public comment. Correct.
No public comment. Okay. Old business.
>> I think now we need to approve the
minutes. That was February 3rd minutes.
Oh, okay. I thought it was April 7th.
Okay. I make a motion to approve the
April 7th meeting minutes.
I'll second.
>> Okay. All those in favor?
>> I
pass.
>> Okay. Old business permit number 26-2
number 0017007
Lake Road.
All righty. Um, my name is Harma. I'm
with Nathan Jacobson Associates. Uh,
we're the town for Andovers. This is a
town project we're presenting. Um, some
of you, I guess, weren't here last time.
What were you likely to do? You want me
to go right from the beginning just or
summarize kind of what we talked about
last time or hit on the promises of
things I said I would change.
>> Let's um let's discuss a summary of what
going on then we can discuss things that
you know we wanted to look at changing.
>> Okay. Um so uh this is a a DOT state
mobile bridge program project. So this
is getting a grant for 50% of the total
project cost. Um you all know where this
is. Okay. So uh the existing pipe is a
fuel bolted corrugated metal pipe arch.
It's about a 14t span by 8 and 1/2t
rise. Um I think I brought uh pictures
particularly of the downstream face. You
can see a lot of damage deterioration. A
lot of um cement concrete units make up
the parapits and the retaining walls and
a lot of the flanges and webs are gone.
We're not really sure what's behind
that. Um the upstream side doesn't look
like that at all. Um the outlet invert
is perched so it doesn't allow for the
passage of aquatic organisms and then
roadside barriers um don't comply with
the current standards but I guess you
can say that automatically these days.
Um so the primary primary focus for
replacing again is the issue with the
downstream
head walls and parapits. Uh this is
Bosola Road, Lake Road, Cheney Brook uh
flowing northerly to Andover Lake.
Another colored drawing here just a
gradient to kind of give you a sense for
what's proposed. There's almost maybe
300 feet of road work here and
stretching up the a little bit. The plan
is to replace the barrel with a 28 foot
span by about 9 foot rise three-sided
pre-cast concrete rigid frame set on uh
concrete footings that'll be cast right
on bedrock. Uh you can actually see the
bedrock in the channel just below. The
stream will be um how do I say graded
slightly to eliminate that jump um
excuse me the perch at the outlet. So
now aquatic organisms can make their way
through. We have two riparian shelves
proposed within the barrel on both sides
of the channel for the passage of
terrestrial critters without having to
potentially go over the road. Um
natural stream bottom material.
Uh from a erosion sediment control
standpoint, there's hay bell and
sedimentation fence at the towo slopes.
There's construction entrances. There's
controls at the catch basin. Uh there's
a pump discharge point. Um the way we
would construct this you know they'll be
able to sleeve the existing pipe get
two smaller pipes.
So this is the war heating plan. I'm not
sure we touched on this last time.
Um, so these are two smaller pipes that
will pass through the existing pipe with
these sort of superersack sandbag coffer
dams to convey the flow into the pipes
and out so the contractor can dry the
area. The road will be closed but the
channel has to remain open. So that's
the purpose of the pipes. The pipes were
designed in accordance with the DOT
drainage manual for a two-year storm and
I should say the permanent structure
designed for the for 100 year storm for
the DOT drainage manual.
Um
here's a quick look at um elevation
views what this field look like
page.
So these are uh upstream and downstream
elevation views. You can get the sense
of the rectangular shape of the
waterway. Um the road array will remain
the same. The road width will remain the
same. Still 30 feet curve to curb. The
the radius when you pull out of a solar
and turn to the right, the radius will
be enlarged a little bit. Um there'll be
bridge rail complying with the current
standards in the DOT and roadside
barriers as well. building on that. And
you can see the natural stream bottom
material, the riparian shelf on the left
and the right.
We talked a little bit last time about
is there going to be rip rock and then
yes, there is going to be rip wrap that
corners
corners of the barrel.
So right right this area here and here
and here basically from the edge of the
ordinary hard water line up to about the
100 year water level um not beyond that
beyond that it'll be uh vegetated and
there'll be an erosion control blanket
has been established and there are
number of trees that you planted and I
think I
remember correctly there's about a total
of 32 or 34 if I remember correctly.
Couple things I said I would do last
when we were here. Uh I did talk about
the small storm drain system in the road
and the discharge would come through the
wall of the the frame um onto some rip
wrap. And somebody here asked whether
that rip wrap would carry right on down
to the bottom of the channel. And I said
I'd make that change, but when I got
back to the office and looked at the
note a little more carefully, it said
that carry the rip wrap right down to
the bottom of the channel. So um I
didn't make a change there. didn't have
to. Um I was uh I commented that the
instream construction window on this set
of plans was written before the core
instituted their nationwide permit in
the middle of March which now for
Connecticut basically says you will you
will not work in river in the springtime
April, May or June, nor can you install
coffer dams or remove them during that
three-month window. And it used to be
that you could. So we changed that note
to say April, May, and June. Unless your
coffer dams in, you can't work in the
river April, May, and June. Um, so, so
that will apply with the Army Corps. We
have been in touch with the Army Corps.
They asked us to, um, take a look at the
ordinary high water line on here. So,
we're working through that with them.
I'm hoping that permit will be soon.
Obviously, we need a permit from this
commission. town we don't need a
planning zone 824 review a report um
let's see uh D for water quality
certification is granted from them to
the core so it's a behind the scenes a
permit that we didn't have to do
anything for um so with all those
permits in place and the design
finalized the town subject to getting
the ements they need would uh go to
construction next year and I think I
said it was about a fivemon construction
production. We were figuring um probably
for the latter half of the year probably
go out to bid later this year or very
early next year. Uh otherwise it'll be
tough to procure pre-cast. It's a long
need item.
Um that's the summary
and I apologize
question.
The do fisheries look at these projects
or
>> Yeah. As part of needing a federal
permit, there's certain due diligence
things we have to do. One is contact EP
fisheries, four different Indian tribes,
two US fish and wildlife service, uh
natural diversity database and state
historic preservation office.
Preservation office has no problems, no
impact historic. Um fisheries asked us
for the national streaming bottom
material. Um and the time of year
restriction that we changed because we
got a rebuke from them prior to
nationwide burns being instituted. Um,
what else? We didn't hear anything from
the tribes, but that is their answer. We
rarely hear anything, but tribes in 42
years, I think I've received one letter.
Yeah. Um, what else? Um, the APAC site
through US Fish and Wildlife Service, I
want to say it probably identified a
couple of bass, another longer bat,
probably in the what's the other one?
The tri track bat, I think, and maybe
the monarch butterfly. Um
I can't remember if it was not likely to
affect um but anyway all that
information gets sent up for the Army
Corps and they've told us that they have
fine say so sort of in their hands.
Um what did I forget?
Oh national diversity database uh based
on the last map we looked at this
project site is not in an area of
concern.
That's where we said Hank was not
needed, right? Was that we said Hank was
not needed, I think, for that. There's a
umologist,
right? We need a herologist.
>> Oh. Oh. Oh, yeah. Um Oh, that's right.
You asked me about that and I didn't
bring an answer with me tonight. I
Yeah, let me see. I probably have turtle
protection notes on here. I want to say
there was
>> I think it was not a concern, right? So,
for the NGB. So, I think we didn't need
Hank for it.
>> Oh, that's right. I'm sorry. No, you're
correct. Right.
>> Yeah. It was non concern. So, we didn't
get a letter back from
>> Right.
>> this to the commission via email isn't
here. So, been on the downstream end
this work as well as the upstream. Um,
and I think this is going to be a
significant improvement um from a
habitat perspective at least for the the
brook and the receiving lake as well. So
that's why I was asking about
but yeah it's I think your your pictures
of the first culvert were probably
low is the the uh drop from the cover
bottom to the the stream surfaces was
substantially higher than than here
photo. So it it does get pretty bad.
>> Yeah. Fisheries always quick to tell us
that the American Neil can climb it. If
there's a Neil in the brook,
>> yeah, I guess
>> I mean there's a there's a decent depth
to the rock right there. It's about
three feet the day we took it. Um, so
worse than that.
>> Yeah, maybe it's just the perspective of
the photos, but I I was surprised I was
doing stream
down below the bridge before and it's
pretty shocking and the condition. Um,
so yeah, I do think this is a good
object for for the town and the the
resources involved.
>> Sure. Is there any concerns about um
sediment upstream of the bridge being
disturbed or you know flowing downstream
anything like that?
>> Um I think somebody asked a similar
question last night.
>> Yeah, we did speak about that.
>> Um you know sediment do you mean like
beyond the work area or within the work
area but upstream of the bridge?
>> Within the work area upstream of the
bridge. Um
>> yeah we had some discussion about the
rip wrap. I I think I would talk about
maybe changing rap some discussion here
about well maybe you shouldn't [__] it
and let it absorb the the senate might
come down the banks which is a good idea
I mean different commissions in our
different towns feel differently um I
don't disagree with doing what you guys
seem to like to do just leave it open
and let it does yeah leave it open and
catch anything before watch
>> I don't know.
>> Yeah, I mean again we are we are going
to put blanket on the slopes and but
there and then there's rip wrap
literally between the blanketed slope
and the channel. So I guess that's a
nice nice bar to capture that if
anything comes up.
So, your plan is on the uh slope. You're
going to be putting in vegetation,
right? Versus what state,
right? I guess imagine weeds, light
brush. I've been out there for a while.
>> Yeah. It's all rock. Oh, that's right.
You chunks of rocks.
Okay. So, it's completely different.
Yep. It's going to be not just the
bridge. It will be different. That whole
area will be probably be improving.
>> Yes. I don't know because it is it's
just all rock right now. So I don't know
how much sun would be getting from that.
>> All just rocks in the water just running
down it mostly.
>> Yeah. I'll take a look at that. Last
time I was out there, I don't recall
seeing it. I don't know if something was
new or maybe just maybe the leaves gone.
You can see it.
Maybe they put it down there. Uh
recently, I don't know if it's
but you know with your diagram you
showing the green, not that particular
one, but you showing the green there.
That that's that's all rock on the on at
least on the right side both sides
actually up side.
It's all bold and
that old fence which you know is
ridiculous but that's going to go needs
to go.
>> Fence
>> that fence that's all it is is like a
little wire fence.
>> Oh the guy.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's that's going to go.
Is there with the new design um you know
the width over the stream the width of
the roadway as you're kind of looking up
and down it um is there room for
pedestrian access on the sides of the
two lanes of traffic or
>> keeping it the same width. So I guess if
you consider the room now uh there was
some discussion of seeing people kind of
walk here and then they walk off the
road along through here. I guess it's on
private property. I'm not sure how that
works. Um maybe just to escape the road.
I suppose I walk behind this much bunch
of stones in here. Um, but we're keeping
the width.
No, we're not going to strike a
shoulder.
>> Um, is public.
>> Oh, go ahead. Um, suppose the town did
run away. Is is the covert is what's
going to be installed uh wide enough to
accommodate that?
Um, so the parapits and railing are
right to the edge of the call.
>> Well, you have to do something pretty
dramatic to can something beyond that,
>> right? It's not going it's not going to
be able to accommodate a wider road
sometime in the future without
significant modifications
if the town I mean that would be sort of
a question of the town I'm looking at
>> I'm assuming I change both plans because
I just thought I'd ask
when she was talking about the ice
cream.
>> I mean, there are multiple people
walking out there, especially for crying
out loud.
But the town would have to commit and
the state would have to commit.
>> Sure.
>> I mean, I've seen
some like other projects where they
actually have the walkway off to the
side.
>> That's what I was thinking.
>> Could Could that be added like to the
bridge itself?
>> You know, like let's say they were to
And I'm saying this just stupidly like,
you know, screw something into the side
and put a walkway on the side of this
thing. It would have to be all totally
engineered. I think that's what I
Everybody's thinking.
>> No, I just think in future
50 years.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean, decision early on, you
know, not just us um town.
>> So the town did not
just replace what's there. It's usually
one of the first questions we ask. It's
a very basic question. You have a
sidewalk. One side, both sides, no
sides, and and no sides is got. I mean,
you can't leave something off the edge.
It would have been 90 million.
>> Yeah. No, no, I understand. But it could
be done to this bridge or would it have
to the whole bridge would have to be
knocked down to can something off the
side?
>> Well, you probably end up having to take
the the parapits off or cut them down.
It's not necessarily dramatic. I mean,
the other possibility, you know, I guess
you could, you know, what if you narrow
the road? You know, the road out here
and the road out here isn't 30 ft wide.
It's just you don't want to narrow it.
Trust me, that's my taste. But
>> yeah,
that
okay. Yeah,
>> thought asking if that had been
considered been built until this.
If it hasn't, and it isn't, then that's
okay with me.
It's not within
>> It's not within the scope of the
project.
>> Yeah. I just curious like they install
stop signs on both kind of slow traffic
to better support for those streams or
>> I went to a whole signal class two weeks
ago and there's all sorts of crazy stuff
that you can do to slow traffic down and
everything like that. And the funniest
part was one person raised their hand
there and they said, "What's going to
happen to all this in three years and
everything's self-driving?"
>> So all that goes away.
Everybody is frustrated because people
are actually
>> question
if the panel doesn't mind. I do have a
couple. Okay. Um are there catch basins
on that bridge? I didn't see
>> not on the existing.
>> Okay.
>> On the proposed here.
>> Here and here. So it's going to flow
from this is the first one. Yeah.
>> Second, third. And it's going to come
right through the wall of the frame
which is right here.
>> Is that all RCP stuff?
>> That's all corugated polyethylene.
>> Okay.
>> And you said it's going to dump out onto
the riparian shelf under the bridge.
Correct.
>> So again,
>> it's going to dump out this promo dump
out onto the riparian shelf under the
bridge.
>> Right. But those are going to be rip
wrapped
>> underneath that so it doesn't erode the
riparian shelf.
>> These are all going to have sumps and
everything. They're not going to be flat
bottom of correct tastes.
>> I mean, is it
>> two foot soaps?
>> Yeah, two foot unless you want something
more.
>> No, no. I was just just curious.
>> We're cleaning again. I look at it
because we're actually starting to uh
clean the catch basin cleaning crew is
coming in tomorrow and we're starting at
the lake because I've been sand salt out
just I want to clean the lake first
before we hit the rest of the town. So,
it's just something
being close to a bridge. I didn't know
if SSburg deber or not just for my own
knowledge.
>> I mean, yeah, they're repl standard, but
you could ask if you want a stupid make
that just this one here is sitting
pretty much close to the top of the
retaining off. They could not make
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
Um,
are they going to have to move wires and
everything to do this project, too? Like
they're doing that out.
>> Yeah. I mean, no promises, right? I
don't know if any of you guys are
involved with that resource, but um we
did meet with them out there and um
they've got a plan whether what they
want to do. So, it's just a matter of us
driving it, pushing that up and it gets
done.
>> That's the first step, right? That's the
first step.
>> What's that?
>> To move to move wires.
>> Uh yeah, I I mean I'm a firm believer in
get the wires out of the way before the
job even goes out the bid. So many
clients said, "Oh, put it out the bid.
We'll wait for the permits. We'll wait
for the wires." If I was a contractor, I
would say I'm not going to bid that job.
And it is. Why are wasting my time?
Sure. Make it attractive. Make sure it's
all set to go. So that's the plan. Get
the wires moved this year. We go out to
bid. Is Basa Road being moved over a
little bit or we just doing the easement
to for temporary in order to get get by
into the stool?
>> Yeah. No, that's a good question.
And if you do that, are you going to
pave it or just have it temporarily
there
protection traffic
even
we do a detail for it elsewhere? Well,
actually here um we are showing a
twoinch depth of asphalt, temporary
asphalt. So we're going to sort of slide
this solo over presumably the town is in
conversation with these various property
owners that are affected.
That's temporary. Yeah. Resume.
Again, the reason why I ask is sometimes
these projects take longer than they
should. The timelines and everything and
if we drag into the winter, I I don't
want to be driving on have my guys drive
off on non-pavement for the winter time.
That's all I was thinking of. Oh, yeah.
You know, it's uh I mean even with the
bridge itself, you know, we really want
to and I think contractors everyone's
agreeing with you want pavement
with their and then the spring come and
the fall on it's just a mess. That's
what it is.
>> And what is the idea of factors that we
play into it, but what's the timing of
this project?
>> Um probably probably start construction
Juneish.
Um again, April, May, June, they can't
be in the water and confined, but you
know, they need some time to mobilize
and get set up for patrol quaring and be
so probably June, July, August,
September, or October. I would say
probably those five months.
>> So by you're thinking by December will
be complete.
>> We're in pretty good shape right now. um
subject to our an internal quality
review in our office on the out the the
long pole in the tent to me while maybe
not a weapons issue is easements that's
always and and that's one you know I'm
trying to push on without being to
anybody I just I just need to know how
to back off or how why didn't you tell
me to get this done I I haven't that
feedback yet so I don't know where I
stand um so we're we're pretty we're in
pretty good shape Uh like I said, wait
for the aring permit. I did a bit of
communication from them. Like I said,
they want me to revise um the ordinary
water line which affects the impact
areas on the environmental impact plane
a little bit, but that's the only thing
they ask for. So that's good.
Where's the uh like dump site going with
the when they like remove pill and put
it off to the side and test it and all
that stuff or is that going to be
outside or they bring it back somewhere
else? That's a good question. No, first
of all, staging in any temporary house I
imagine would just be right on the
approaches because it'll be closed.
There'll be some there'll be some um
there's a driveway here I believe but
you know they can steal some room.
They've got a bunch of room in here.
Okay.
>> Um, and they can't really steal much
here. And I'm sorry, are you with ETW?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. They'll probably come to you and
ask you about
>> They'll probably ask you on
>> That's what the contract
>> they love to do that to cart it away
supposed to leave.
>> Yes,
>> that's what the staff said.
>> Okay. I just I know there's not a lot of
room over there and I just didn't know
if they were going to have to move into
another site in order to dump it. If we
were going to have to have a site for
them.
>> Okay.
Do you guys you guys want to site?
>> Uh well I did one.
>> Yeah,
too. Yeah.
thoughts.
>> I'm okay either way. I just thought the
commission should discuss whether or not
to go to the budget.
>> Couple of questions that you probably
know the answer to. Megan is I remember
when you were in a similar situation a
year or two ago with no wetlands agent
and you were the chair just taken over
probably but you had some special
qualifications
I think that allowed us to do business
as a commission at that point
>> was a bigger conversation or
a bigger conversation or
>> well so it it surprises me that the town
of which we're a part chooses to submit
this application
at a time when we don't have a weapons
agent especially when there's no urgency
here because we're not going to do it
for over it's going to be more than a
year before we even started
>> oh I was thinking so that's
>> we we'll want to advertise I mean I
would like to advertise in November of
this year
>> okay so that's all
>> why we're choosing you this was a fairly
significant
undertaking and we're choosing to do it
without the benefit of a weapons agent.
I don't know if you know and again I
recall you had some qualifications that
that we voted on and said okay we're
good to do business. I don't know I
don't recall what that was and where we
stand.
>> Yeah. I don't I don't think we can
not operate as a commission just because
we don't have the work.
>> I couldn't hear you.
>> I don't think we can, you know, not do
our job as a commission just because we
don't have a wetlands agent.
>> I I believe that without the access of
the wetlands agent, the commission is
the wetlands agent.
>> Yeah, the wetlands agent works for the
commission.
>> But that's certainly not an ideal
situation. It may not be that you can
do business.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, I'm going to have a report on
that later, but
>> hopefully it'll be resil.
has there been and again it's not really
weapons related so
but just my own curiosity um doing the
work in the summer I understand from a
project perspective from a community
impact perspective
that's when the league has the most
traffic um has there been any discussion
of that and kind of the the interruption
of you know
traffic around the lake during that kind
of
peak recreation period.
>> Yeah, it's pretty typical. Another one
of the old lines, the same thing when we
close the bridge.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh you know, in the northeast we're
really sort of pigeon pulled into a
construction season shut down.
>> Yeah.
>> Now there's environmental time with the
restrictions and then there's sort of
temperature restrictions on local
materials and surely you can concrete in
the winter. you know, we may have heat
it price of fuel and everything else 247
keeping things warm. So, you know,
there's a the town say, look, we're
going to build this in order because we
don't want it to show up, but there'll
be a price tag and so then it'll be
somebody else's decision.
>> Has there been discussion with either
Alma or about the project?
>> So, um there's two two organizations
that
manage. So the lake management
association only is the owner of the
lake bed and the u the maintainer of the
dam and water quality and kind of the
traditional lake management and then alo
the like and over lake property owners
association is more the um
socialization side of things they manage
the beach um and kind of the recreation
house next to the lake
>> so you know lake management association
that they own both parcels here that
doesn't touch map. Yeah, we've got it.
>> They're in the lake.
>> They own the lake bed.
>> Yeah, but they have landed
that actually belongs to Alma. There's a
piece of land there.
It's a swamp circ to look at.
>> Um, yeah. No, just it shows two parcels
down there one by. So, how has somebody
been in touch with him? Again, this is
the town. Um,
the administrator or maybe the town
attorney. I don't know. We've been
>> I don't but they need to be contacted
because we're looking for temporary
easements from them.
>> Some board
um to their awareness and there's been
any substantial discussion yet. I think
it would benefit the commission to on
the way in similar to how we do with the
job plan of other projects that impact
the file before we approve them.
>> Is public works could be doing any site
work for this?
>> Not to my knowledge.
>> No. Um, another question I had was I'm
sure there's going to need to be some
trees taken down around that. Um, we do
have a tree warden. Yes. As well. So,
it's going to have to be kind of
involved a little bit. Yes, it
definitely involved flying trees.
>> Yep. One of the first questions the
contractors can ask is there
would be preferable um not to have
involved in the construction. Let the
contractor do it. just eliminates one
one more trip, you know, potential
issue. Nothing.
>> No, no, everything else.
It just I mean, we did. So, as you guys
know, we remove the trees down at the
park because they had to move the wires
over in order to get that bridge, but
that's about the extent of
with
too much for
you. saw something.
So these little circles with the accents
are the trees to do
and then really there's a brush sort of
brings them
but you know the rightway is you know
fairly uniform through here and then
these are the easements
lines primarily temporary I think
there's a permanent right there corner
we do do roadside mowing as you guys
know so we have what they call open rail
m try to reach over some of these
railings and trim some of the brush deck
roads over but again that's about the
extent of all we do
>> I think given the scope of the project
um I think it's mostly positive impacts
to the wetlands and and water forces but
nevertheless I think it's significant
impacts um it doesn't sound like it's
going to for zoning um I'm a little
uncomfortable proceeding with the
project without greater community
involvement so I would motion that
occurs to a public hearing before the
forums
What are the time limits to uh set a
public hearing for once a uh application
is submitted?
And I and I agree with you because, you
know, we we said we were going to reach
out to Hank. I don't know that anybody
actually spoke to him, but we did talk
about turtles being over there and uh I
thought we were going to, you know,
Hank, what what's your take on this?
He's he's our expert. um all that stuff.
Um
so I I sort of uh
agree with you there that you said you
were part of the the full committee. um
you know what when this was brought up
what like
>> so it wasn't during a meeting I just
flagged it via email so it hasn't been
discussed by
um so I can't
>> respond
>> I just was wondering if they had any
indication this was happening or
>> I don't really think so no
>> you know
>> I mean I know we publicly post things on
the website but
>> realistically most people are not you
know scouring
minutes and applications to to know
what's going on. So, um
>> I do have one more question.
There going to be a dry hydrant for fire
department off this bridge or not?
>> It's a soft motion.
>> Yeah, we can.
at least know what
are your next thoughts.
I think it's a great idea and
unfortunately
the person we need to talk to is
public by doing this
public hearing now right
>> it's kind of like public
that's got
>> so
>> well I think the people married who
might have you
I love hanging and not just coming
knowledge is certainly valuable but I
think he's one of many people going to
do that might want to in a way
>> also if the person that you want to get
the easement from maybe should be
involved in a public hearing
somebody you could contact find out who
actually it is that lives there and that
might help you get that going the as
they
I understand.
>> Yeah,
>> they need to be in contact with just our
stuff,
>> but that would public hearing and give
them an opportunity, especially if it's
posted
and I don't know they post
>> I don't do
>> I would think they should. Yeah,
>> but
like you have to actually find
you have do you post that or would you
post it on the bridge?
>> I don't know where you post that. I know
like like for zoning or like even crew
removal same thing you have to post it
that has to be posted on the tree 10
days.
>> What was the date of the application
received? April 47ation
um a hearing can't be held later and 65
days after the receipt of such
application.
I think we'd have to have the public
hearing on June 9th.
>> Yeah.
>> Move.
Well, actually, so if we had the next
meeting on June 2nd, which is when we
scheduled, that's within the 65 days
>> and that was for notice.
>> We could Yeah, we just have to uh get
the uh notification in newspaper, you
know, and we've got time to do that. So
if we don't have a weaponization, you
know, I'll make sure all that stuff
happens. I know you don't
know what all those rules are and I
don't have an rules, but I know a lot of
the CX similar to what I used to all the
public hearing, you know, regulations
are the same for you the different
commissions. It's all stable. They're
just saying
>> what what is the motion?
>> Um the public hearing
on the application
>> June 2nd.
>> I can ask you a second.
the business time.
>> Okay. Yeah. And if we wanted to, we
could take action, you know, that same
item.
>> Okay.
>> All those in favor I
pass.
>> Sorry.
I guess
discussion.
>> I guess we should have included that in
our discussion. Are you available to
present something that you
>> I think so yes
>> okay thank you again thank
Okay. Okay. So, new business
26-3
pond parking lot application
DPW
that's from six. Uh, yes and no.
>> Okay. Um,
the millings on I I did acquire some
millings. Um, I didn't care for a lot of
them. So, I'll use that. I'm going to
use those, but I'm going to get
I'm going to buy spring millings for the
top so we can actually roll it in better
and it will bond better. How do they
allow trigger the millings that were on
six were an experimental uh ph that they
put down see how it turned out and you
all saw it didn't turn out well. I
didn't know that. Yes. Interesting. If
you looked on route six that they
probably was up and plowed up over time,
they actually said, "Oh, there's like
little signs that said, oh, it was
experimental, you know, from dot spec
XYZ." Um, if you notice too, they didn't
mill real deep either, but they only put
like an inch of this stuff down on them.
Um, I noticed that they're very dry. I
noticed that we got one load we actually
just brought down to our layown yard and
we just had so many chunks and stuff in
it. doesn't really have much to do with
it. So, I'm kind of happy I didn't get
about 200 folks trip or something
projects I want to do. So, again, I'll
probably put this on the bottom and then
buy a couple loads of screen stuff or
thank you.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you have any ideas?
>> Nope. Nope. They could have came from
any project in the in the city. Again,
it could be it could be another
experimental
um you know roadway. Um but if I get a
load that looks like garbage or if it's
local, I will I will go look at it. I'm
a very visual guy. I like to put my hand
in and try it, stuff like that. Look at
the pile and getting it out of because
you can tell if it's straight or not.
So, originally this came about, Scott
Pearson called me. Yes.
>> And asked if they can if you guys could
dump me in that lot, and I said, "We
have to bring the pressure first." What
I'd like to do is dig out a little bit.
Just not just dump it on the garbage
that's there. Um, my thoughts are um uh
dig down 8 10 inches. Maybe put a layer
of stone, put some fabric down so the
fives don't um come up through it. Um
the stone would act as a little bit of
drainage just for water moving
underground to get the filter fabric to
be keep the fines out. Um and then put
the milk on top of that
when you roll the millings. Yes.
>> And you said you use the word bonding.
>> Yes.
>> Does that make it an impervious surface?
No. Melons will drain even after roll
slowly and very slowly. Yeah. But it
might be hasn't very successful. Yes. Do
>> Yes.
Very slow. Yes. What I what I like to do
is I mean in the perfect world, I'd like
to crown it a little bit. So like any
water that does hit it will run off to
the edge. The problem with Millings is
it's a uh it's still a stone based
product. And if you notice down at the
Veterans Park there where people come in
and they when they first drive in, they
turn. Well, where the asphalt meets the
millings, there's always a hole there
because people are constantly turning.
So, anywhere um I'm gonna use because I
I came from there. We put a lot of
millings around the lake on some of
these dirt roads and in front of
everybody's driveway there's potholes
because everybody turns to go into their
driveway. So, that's that is the problem
the with the mills. So they h um we can
the ideal time is next month we do this
project put them in we pound it in with
a roller the sun beats on it all summer
kind of melts it down a little bit and
and uh and it gives it a better bonding
surface.
>> What's the current surface?
>> That yeah
fill mud. Um one of the complaints I
heard was like the fire department uses
that as a for their
>> for a dry hydrant and that's like one of
their main sources they use. So when I
first got here I kind of looked at that
like well we got to do saucing that
because one of these days we're going to
use fire sharp there on that and that
that's going to be expensive.
>> Um so the biggest reason I wanted to
talk to the commission about it first
was because technically speaking
millings can each
be close to the water.
Yep. It's still an oil based product.
It's still, you know, you're going to go
in there, you're going to get kids that
are going to blow donuts. Let's call it
what it is. I mean, they do it down the
back part. So, they're going to scatter
it all over the place. So,
>> yeah. I think from a a water quality
perspective, I had concerns. Um, they
are, you know, especially if you don't
source the it could be, you know, like a
a gas station parking lot. Like, you
really just don't know the source.
>> No, it won't be a gas station parking
lot. Usually what happens is the guys
that are buying it are buying it off or
are are taking them off a project like
this any gas station parking lots and
stuff like that.
Maybe that's
>> No, no, no. I was saying normally
normally they
>> Yeah, they associated between and you
know chemical substances. They had
concerns about using that material um in
such close proximity to water courses
without um a way to manage the storm
water off of them which won't control
infiltration. But um at least managing
storm water. I will say the site
at least several years ago it came up I
think at the time we're talking crush
stone. Um so we kind of seem to keep
having the same conversation about this
parking lot and I I wonder if like
honestly just taping it isn't you know
the best solution at this point and
>> well what it's doing
cheaper.
>> Yes. Uh uh the millions will be cheaper.
way cheaper. Um just we can repair it
easier. Uh sometimes what what I've done
in the past, I'm going to use my
previous experience like towns. Um if we
you could actually put um like hot patch
on somebody's holes and it'll actually
bond to what's there as well. So you can
fill in you can use asphalt or mills.
>> I just I mean there's no buffer. It's
you know the
the stream.
>> So if you you guys don't mind
I mean kind of we drive by it every day
see everybody sees it. Um
the most you ever see in there or maybe
four cars
and that's that's a big enough area. It
might be shorter.
>> Mhm.
>> So that you'll only allow parking for
say six cars.
>> And that's a good idea.
>> Maybe now you have your we have room for
your buffer.
>> Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Can we put So
>> I would So my plan was wasn't going all
the way to death by any
go.
>> Oh, I know. With with the milling. I
wasn't going to go all the way to death.
there's going to be definitely a buffer
zone. Um, you know, another thing I was
just, you know, spitballing with my crew
leader, Zach, uh, you know, maybe we
take because we we have a bunch of rocks
down our lay down guard. Maybe we can
put a bunch of rocks there so nobody can
can, you know, they have to stop at that
to put up, you know, to put a railing
up. Now you're c, you know, talking
money. You know, we put rocks up there,
maybe throw some little bit of dirt
down, get some grass growing, just
that's what I was hoping. And it would
it would definitely end up what's the
word? Beautify,
>> you know, to to just allow say six cars
have some sort of curb, whatever.
However you I'm not talking about a
asphalt curve, anything, but some a
border and some top soil and get some
grass growing in here.
Well, sometimes they can take like you
see it on the rail trail there like
bigger rocks and they're placed in there
where cars can't go and
um they're free
enough.
So,
>> is there a drawing uh associated with
this project? I looked online and all I
saw was the application.
>> Yeah. Not yet because I wanted to see
what your guys take was before we get if
you guys didn't approve it. No offense.
Why am I going to go through all this
problem here? My next step is I got to
get a ro from the state as well. That's
my next uh there is there is an apron
out there. They did pave an apron on
that uh on that piece which is good. But
again, we're still crossing the right
way. So, we're going to do we're going
to need our dump.
Like if we were I think if we're talking
about putting process down like I would
personally be all for stone the only
difference because of millings.
>> Yeah. No, again it's what whatever the
process is more money though. I will say
that it's so much just bought two tri
accesses last week and it was $1,000 and
that's going to take multiple trixes in
here to get to where we go. It's not
just take throw it in there grade it out
because if we do that it within a year
you're going to have all that garbage
come up even if we put
>> I think that's I think stone dust or
something
>> again if we don't dig it out and put a
good base in there. It's just going to
go right back to like back to what it is
and we can put all the the fabric down
much.
>> Yeah, I think if there's a way we'll
work with the fire department to make
sure that it's not taking away their
access or speeds, but to then
yeah reduce the parking lot area and
provide a greater buffer on I don't know
what cardinal direction it is probably
into the left but straight ahead to the
right. Um yeah, that would mitigate
essentially the the concern is about the
material type
of buildings because you'd be providing
more vegetative bunker to that.
Just as a side note again back to
concentry, we put miles of millings out
on all the dirt roads down around the
lake and we've never had too much
problems leeching into the catch face
and stuff like that
>> cuz once quality testing to confirm
>> I did not, but but I've I've sucked out
enough baits down there and you know
there's two feet of millings in there.
>> You know it's Yeah. So you you know you
you can tell it's migrating in here. You
you you know um we use them on surfing
dirt roads that had nasty hills on them
and we got away from that and paved it
because we got the same thing. You get a
heavy rain on the hill it would just
wash right down to the top right back to
where you north. I didn't care how hard
you packed them in and it just did not.
So we gravitated away from that and just
would use them on a flat surface. uh
roads are start most of the roads down
there are now all paved. Um but prior to
that any entrances to like other roads
if they were paved we would do aprons
and everything like that and just run
them straight like that.
>> So is that parking lot like sinking? Is
that's what it's called? Or do you think
it's
>> it's just everybody owning there just
turning and just it's garbage material
in there. It doesn't drain. It just
>> is it clay?
>> It's I think it's just fill. I think
over the years they just said, "Oh,
parking area." And they filled it and
filled it and filled it.
>> Oh, material.
>> It may not have been down. It could have
been the state,
>> you know, the state would have been, you
know, at some point messing with 316
back 60 years ago, what have you, and
said, "Oh, we need a little we need an
area uh for the contractor." They made,
"Oh, look, here's an area. The town owns
it. We don't have to pay anybody." So
they went in there and they made a lay
down area and they just kind of pushed
it around and left and people started
migrating to it.
Plenty of spots like that around the
state and you'd be amazed. You be like,
"How the heck did that happen?" Go back
and look go.
Well, that's why I was asking about
where the the solar road project because
if they if they make a lay down area
then you'll take all that out of there.
People are going to start parking in
there walk down. So
>> you guys in favor of that drinking the
parking lot and making vegetative
buffer?
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> Yeah, the rocks. Rocks as long as the
rocks are not in impeding the fire
department.
>> Yeah. Oh no, no, we wouldn't. But we
would make it so it's like we would
protect the dry hydrant. So if somebody
did do something,
>> you guys favor of uh just 50 foot buffer
vegetation
harder than that
distance.
>> Well, I think it would be nice to figure
out.
>> Do we have 50 ft there?
>> I don't know. 50.
>> No. Again, I really haven't walked it,
you know, and I'm sorry I don't have
more information just because I wanted
to get your guys thoughts before I
really dive into this. I just threw it
out of sharp
just do something to square it up.
>> Yeah.
>> Make it look nice and neat. So the bars
come in bark head in or
>> I think it's a good idea.
>> And then you know you you'll need some
whatever to the dry python there. But
that's no problem.
>> Yeah. So it won't be squared of kind of
the uh you know one corner but somewhat
your idea just we got plenty of rocks in
town. idea just taint
big rocks that people can't move
>> and if we have to get in there we have
the capability of moving around so we're
we're putting them there so something
for whatever reason we do have to get in
there they tend to move diesel
a lot of towns do this and I think it
looks horrible they put salt
and that that's gone
>> yeah I'll fight the guys that suck Could
you prepare just a you know definition?
>> Absolutely definition.
>> Yeah, that would be okay. No problem. J,
did you have a comment? Well, I guess
a detailed comment. So, if I know we've
got an application with no drawing, but
the receipt date, you know, currently
unless it's 422. It best would be 57,
wouldn't it? Isn't it the date of the
meeting?
>> Yeah, I think the date that the
commission set up until
>> So that would be, you know, 55 because
you we we listed the max action date
there is 527,
which
>> I put
>> Yeah. Which I think we've got we can't
the minimum date would be two weeks
after today.
>> Yeah.
That enough time for you put something
together try. Yes.
>> No.
>> Well, is there a rush on the propert
I mean I can do it in between stuff.
It's not not a big deal. This isn't I
mean people are still parking there.
This isn't a uh like you know we got
wait this has to be done tomorrow
otherwise we're
>> this is the town project. It's not like
>> Yes.
>> You kind of come back to the commission
and say, "Oh, you didn't act in time.
That means it's automatically approved."
>> Yeah. Right.
>> Right. Yeah. But it
>> shouldn't.
>> No. At the state level, but um
>> No. I'm just trying to visualize
why would
Chamberlain Pod be any different than
the parking lots we have like on Lake
Road for the railway. You know, you you
come off the road in your parking. You
don't have to go way back all the way
over to the line. You get that way back
maybe in a
>> Well,
you do want to go a little further in.
Don't forget uh over on Lake Road, we
don't have as much traffic as we do on
316. There's a nasty corner you can't
see. Then you're not
>> okay
back out. Back it out.
>> But there's there's quite a depth to
that parking lot. And
>> you maybe you can cut it in half almost
>> spand years because there nothing
construct
>> but I think you know you ever seen world
cars here?
>> No.
>> Yeah.
I mean, I've seen the state DOT truck
sitting there.
>> Yeah.
>> Wait for the snow.
>> Yeah, pretty much. It's funny.
>> You usually see somebody in there who's
just parked there
or
>> there is a picnic table in there
for fishing train. I' seen people in
there fishing occasionally. People do
use it. The trail it's very overgrown
that goes around. That's the first seed
trail or do you want
>> it's part of it like when it's when it's
cut it does connect to the network
behind the school but it it it grows up
pretty quickly so it really needs to be
like heavily cleared during the growing
season for it to maintain to be able to
be used.
>> Yeah. My wife and I partner ice skating
on the
>> Yeah. all the time. People definitely
use it. And I think if it, you know,
honestly looks a little nicer, people
might use it more
>> for the rocks and the grass. I could do
something like that.
>> Yeah. So, um, you put a nice sign up.
>> Well, you have a nice parking space.
>> Well, there is a nice
>> Is it like a flower pot or something?
>> Yeah, it's a flower on the right on the
right side there. So maybe
there's not much in it, right?
>> But you're right there.
>> But regardless, um, yeah.
>> Do I need a motion to table this till we
get a drawing?
>> I don't think so. So we just continue to
give
>> we gave some information. He's going to
come back. We'll talk about it some
more.
>> We'll table this until we can get some
photos and excellent idea and kind of a
sketch of know where rocks and maybe say
roughly 50 foot buffer around the
water's edge.
>> Okay.
>> Sound good? Yeah.
Like I said, I just wanted to buy you
guys
and have all this information you like
to be here.
Thank you for your comments.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay. Are you Oh, sorry. Are you Are you
still on board with doing the buildings?
>> Um
>> if you had the buffer
>> if we had a buff or Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
Okay. I just want to be sure. Okay. Are
you guys in favor of that?
>> That's smart enough to know one way or
the other, right? I but I looked at that
and I said millings are great but you
got some great points about you know the
oil base that actually
brought it back to never seen it happen
but then you could slope
>> well we're going to want to slope it
anyways we're going to try not to have
you knowing in there
>> I'd have in a perfect world I'd say yes
but I'd have to get out there and stick
it to see which way everything's going.
Yeah,
>> maybe for the next meeting, could we
come up with a drawing and some photos
and then see if we can slope it back
towards the road and south towards the
swale.
>> Yep.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. Yeah,
>> yeah, cuz I know there's a swale there.
Maybe we pitch it towards the swale or
storm water control rather than towards
the body water. If we do that, we may
have to throw like a little bit of rip
wrap in there or something because if we
get everybody talks about this
hundredyear flood, if all of a sudden
it's still kind of granular or something
that just goes right away, at least we
kind at least we show we try to mitigate
it or the regret.
Yeah.
>> All right. So, we'll table that until
next June 2nd.
We shouldn't check that available on
June second. Okay. For a public hearing,
but I don't
be very nice to everyone.
>> Um,
any other discussion? As a forces and
actions when you didn't have anything I
wanted.
>> Okay.
>> Yes, that's right. And I just wanted to,
you know, I think Wayne sent out to
everybody within the last day or so some
information from the state forestry
folks that I happened to get from Scott
Passan. And uh I thought it was very
good. You know, every time somebody
comes to us and says, I want to go
harvest trees,
they argue that Andover is the only
place that makes them go get a permit.
and uh you know that probably not true
but that's what we hear from them every
time they come in and when I looked at
so there was uh there's some good
information in the email on it
we had talked uh when we were coming up
to the planet conservation and
development one of the things
conservation commission wanted was us to
have a timber harvest notification form
for anything that gets done I looked at
this thing and I said wow that's got a
lot of detail on That's probably
cumbersome for the guy to do. Of course,
he ain't going to want to do it, but we
get a good record of what's going on.
And then they had this crusty little
flowchart that I uh as I looked through
there, you know, it kind of shows
I thought it it reflected what we always
do.
>> Yeah.
>> And so, you know, if we're using the
state stuff and somebody says, "How come
you guys want us to do all this? We're
just using the state stuff." Well, and I
I wouldn't worry about that feedback
that we're the only town because if they
truly felt we were out of line, they
could bring it to the state and the
state could tell we're not properly
enforcing the regulation. So, the fact
that they haven't painful.
>> Yep.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Yeah, that probably true too. But
you know, certainly this would formalize
based on what the states provided what
we what we expect and makes it very
easy. So, you know, we don't have to
take any action on wait till we get a
wetlands agent, which I would think that
that would be something that you would
be to our benefit to use.
>> I just wanted to clarify what you said
the because we would only look at
applications that have a water course or
wetlands impact or essential. Um, did
they want that for all timber? The
conservation commission for all timber
who
>> like we wouldn't be able to oversee that
I guess for all all harvesting in town.
>> I think uh you know the wetlands agent
would be the guy and the thought was
people come in and want to harvest and
they don't really know whether they got
wetlands or not. And so if we force him
to come in and have the conversation,
then the wetlands agent can look on
whatever re however he wants to do. We
say, "Okay, yep, you don't have anything
there." But there's enough information
on this that uh I think allows the
wetlands agent to to make a
determination what his knowledge is the
area. So it
the conservation commission's thought is
we need to put those measures into place
ahead of time such that when we actually
get the guy at a meeting we're not
throwing you know throwing him under the
bus and and making him unhappy. He goes
ahead of time. He comes gives us
everything and uh then it should be a
pretty smooth
pretty smooth course because we made him
give us the information we need so that
we can make sure
that we can
request them. we can truly require
materials from a a really doesn't
operate in the upland review area or
within wetlands.
>> That's smart enough to answer that.
Yeah, I don't know.
>> I mean, I don't certainly not wet
because it it wouldn't have wet
>> but how do you know that's the thing?
>> I think a lot of times
>> this is arguments. This is a watershed
area that
>> just about everywhere you go it's water.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's is it a marsh? Is it a wet? Is
it a stream? Is it a pond? Is it a
kettle p? Whatever. And if you if you're
harvesting 400 acres of trees
on there or something
>> and if they don't know
I mean I know we I've been on this
commission now about five years. I think
I've done one one two
um site blocks on timber or timber
harvest. two one they were clearing 40
acres or whatever for firewood
>> right right
he had water piece of land I mean
springs
he goes no we don't have any marshes
here we don't have
>> they almost got us go it's like finally
the lady nice lady she goes oh go ahead
come on out and go take a look it was
almost like she was just being nice to
to let us
And then we go there, there's a cow pond
right next to the the road
>> like right on
and it's like no. So because we work as
a guy who's going to do a harvest come
in, talk to the weapons agent to make
sure.
>> Yeah.
>> And then at least we could keep the
trees around the counter pond from
getting cut back home. And now the other
question is now I don't know maybe I'm
confused on this even if there's
wetlands on property and they're they
want to do timber harvest. I remember
Joe was explaining that and was a right
to timber harvest town right. So how
does that work now if the trees are in
wetlands and they still want to timber
harvest?
>> So it's more about the process. So how
>> yeah like if they're driving through
wetlands and doing anything mate the
impact.
they had to go around.
>> Yeah, I think we've done three or four
of these bunch of years. But
>> there's a lot of times where you talk to
the guy about avoiding his wetland area,
then uh okay, we can sh but he comes in
present his plan and we you know start
he feels like we're attacking him and uh
that doesn't go very well.
>> Yeah. Okay. That's what the other what
was the other timber harvest I went on
was the first time that that land had
been looked at in 40 years the previous
harvest and the um the big boards I
forget the what you call those the ones
that you put in the stream
>> it was still there
>> that's why we I think the we should be
looking into the timber harvest and not
just assuming, oh yeah, there is no
water on that property. It's like sure
that should be an agent thing.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> Agents
>> because I think that what is it? You
don't remember was it on Boston Hill
where we all walked that time? I think
Joe flagged a bunch of areas, right?
>> Yeah. Stay under here. Stay under.
>> Don't cut the trees around here.
>> But I think
no issue. You know,
they were cut the trees.
>> Yeah.
>> Until we talk about that.
>> Yeah. Actually, me and Joe walk the
property. Oh, yeah. 36 exact same thing.
One of our timber. We walk we both walk
through property,
you know, chill
stay out of here
like that equipment or stuff. So
makes sense. Yeah. I thought it was a
good idea. Sure. Yeah. Really good idea.
>> We need a motion on something like that
or stay.
No, I would think you would just direct
the weaponization to use the
>> SH
would that state form need to be
modified for town use or you
>> It's easy enough, but
>> I mean enough to take that form. Well,
I'm just wondering if it's something
that we want to post to the, you know,
the website now or
>> Well, I guess I'd like to hear from
Wayne. He talks about how our company
and I did develop
in the weapons agent world.
Waiting for the agenda.
>> Okay. Your stick was for the agenda.
>> Yeah. Okay. That's good. That's good.
But I just was hoping that everybody
else would think it's a good idea too
and it will work within whatever.
>> It's a good idea.
>> I'm not familiar with the wet
if someone wants to cut their trees
down. Do they have to come to
>> it's a great
>> the town and ask permission to cut their
trees? I think if you know the Atriy
rights guy still
>> Yeah. Timber falls under agriculture. So
there are former Department of
Agriculture and
>> well
>> I think the risk you run is you don't
come to the wells agent you get started
and then we go out and stop them and
that is tremendous cost to the property.
Yeah. But is is there any formal
requirement like a regulation there says
if you are going to conduct timber
shel fill out this form and have it
reviewed by
or is there
I'm not familiar enough
optional until they do
>> and then by what at what point do you
trigger this
I mean, if you're just going to go cut
some firewood in the woods behind the
behind the house or
>> as you're saying like bridge or
something.
>> No. Well, yeah.
>> Yeah. The amount of the volume of stuff
you're cutting.
>> I know you did wheeling road too.
>> They use they use the term endorse in
this email a lot. Endorsed the
previously uh utilized timber form. You
will find text this document. Please
note this form has been crossendorsed by
Connecticut Forest and Bark Association,
Connecticut Farm Bureau and the
Connecticut Professional Timber
Producers Associ.
So, is that form intended for towns to
use or is it being used for another
purpose?
>> No, it's intended for
>> it's a model form statew.
No, it's funny you mentioned Wheeling
Road because that was actually
what when we were trying to talk to the
the uh arborist there soon as we said,
"Oh, you're going to need uh burping."
Soon as we were so like that, we're
going to need permit for just now I'm
not involved in that. He he just
relieved himself from the meeting that
permits were
to my to my knowledge. There are permits
in place because
they put the landings down. Oh
jurisdictional uh that's what we were
talking about. Do we have jurisdiction
over the um
timber harvest? And and it's when we
talked about it and it took we came to
the conclusion, yes, we did have
jurisdiction over.
>> We obviously have jurisdiction. Some of
us working in wetlands or building.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> But that was the end of the conversation
when we said yes, we do have
jurisdiction.
>> We were all kind of surprised. He just
got him.
>> You were ready to, you know, there were
easy paths around it to avoid the
weather. He just didn't want it.
>> But did he do it? Sounds like he must
have come back.
>> Did he not do the project or
>> I never he never came back?
>> Yeah.
>> We never approved a permit for him.
I hate deciding that we didn't have
jurisdiction over you, I guess, because
uh NRCS drew up the plans for the
landings
stuff like that. Maybe we're not even
>> I think it was
a mission and he didn't want anything to
do with I guess probably Joe must have
taken care of.
>> He put the first he put the stone in.
It's all there. Looks like an
We're waiting to get here.
>> Are we?
>> Yeah. Is there any further discussion on
anything for tonight?
Any further discussion on anything? I'll
go one more just for everybody's
information here. the uh at the last
plan and zoning meeting there was a
group that came to talk about lint home
corners rosewood acres down here that uh
they're trying to put in 86 town homes
>> which would be a lot of housing coming
into
the only one we heard.
>> No, we
the corner of 87 and and route six.
which you could see from over here. You
could see if you look down through the
woods,
>> right? No. Is that clear?
>> No.
>> It's like a dead end road, right?
>> If you go to route 87.
>> Yeah.
>> And route six headed towards Bullet
Manic is going to be on the right hand
side just past route 87.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Oh, that uh guy used to have the smoke
shop.
>> No, that uh that's a that's a pull up
there.
>> Yeah, that's further down the road.
That's by uh Bunker Hill or one of those
roads down there that goes off. But but
this is a 56 acre parcel
and uh
I think it it sounds like pretty good
idea. You know, somebody asked him if
you been out there to look and see if
there's any wetlands. He said nope. He
said, you know, I think it was Scott Pan
and he's very familiar with the
property. and he said, "Well, you you
need to get somebody out there to take a
look." Then uh
>> and they can I mean, if there are, they
can both mitigation alter. It's not a
it's not a deal breaker,
>> right?
Yeah. But but but
we should expect at some point hopefully
we'll get a chance to hear from him
because
>> it sounded like he was eager to go
forward with the project.
>> I I recall it's on economic development
for a little bit. I think that was a lot
of parcels hard to try and get something
interested in um we do have an 80
interested in getting something
interested.
>> Yeah.
>> At the same time he was going to put a
little you know three shop commercial
thing right off on on route six over
that way too. So it looked like that
might be a pretty good thing for the
town.
I explain to you I actually can add
something to that here. I
one of the u proponents one of the one
of the individuals proposing
they're just keeping tigers right now.
There's no there's no firm proposals or
anything like that. Anyway, they were in
the office and um
picking my brain and stuff like that.
And one of the things I did was that
that was that property was a subject of
a of a subdivision. So there are maps
that show wetlands and stuff like that.
So I I did I did um let him I I didn't
show that stuff the proponent. I didn't
point out that there are a significant
amount of wetlands on their property per
the subdivision maps
and
how do I put this? Uh
I didn't get the warm fuzzies.
So
um I don't know where this is going.
There's an option or something like
that. His timeline is very rushed.
and
they have to make a decision soon
whether they're going to purchase the
property
in order to have the property to propose
this development.
I I think I'll just leave it at that,
but I have provided them with as much
information as we have on that.
Okay.
That's all I did. Okay.
So, make during the meeting.
Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Oh, commission was I guess.
Well, I'm waiting for subject. I'm the
zoning agent. Um but
uh I guess uh in the absence of clear
direction um I have
we posted a the job opening the job
opening closes this Friday. Um I can
report that we do have an applicant.
I'm not going to discuss the applicant
or anything like that. That would be
inappropriate. But we do have an
applicant that um
may be desiraction.
>> Where was the child posted?
>> Was posted on the website. It was
posted. It was a um legal notice. It was
posted to the um planning zoning
wetlands uh list serve that Yukon runs.
And
well, those are the three places I
posted, too.
>> I can out to some of the
on
the river bree. It was in the river.
Yeah.
and our town player um you know did
contribute to the
doc
search I'm sorry the evidence search
so that's really what I have to report
there is from my perspective right at
the end of this
I've been trying to just kind of keep
things moving as best I can and
thankfully there hasn't did a whole lot
to keep moving in the wetlands area.
Like I told Duncan in the interest of
full disclosure, I have worked at site
plans that didn't have wetlands and said
there did identify any weapons
said okay
just to keep
you know like shifts and stuff like
that.
Yeah, I think that's what Joe was doing.
As long as he didn't see what Yeah.
interference.
>> Yeah. I mean, I usually was in the
office. I picked up what I could from.
>> But something like this.
>> Yeah.
This other project.
Sure.
I'll have enough to do this only 86.
Yeah.
if that comes in being and and then
there was the other the other
pre-application we agre
she is thinking about adding
a uh another unit 32 apartments in that
unit.
So um that's going to
that's going to complete for you guys
that's going to be challenge for TNC to
>> where
above
>> the whales shinsley
road doesn't go all the way through and
stops
>> it's not a town it's the town doesn't
maintain.
>> Oh god. She's not.
She has
all together up there. There's probably
five or six
unit five or six like 12 unit buildings
already.
>> They're all single single. They're all
one bed.
That's what she proposed with.
They were
of course they were built like in the
60s. So with today's standards
there could be some some significant
challenges to overcome
in my mind. I think anybody agreed.
Well, the only way you know they will
have to come in under the state statute
830G which bypasses the zoning
regulations if you have an application
zoning still has to
>> they do
if they don't like the zoning they
>> take it to court you've seen a lot of
that in the newspap
um
>> because they do have to go to court at
that point they can't just
>> yeah that's that's what 8:30 routine is
all uh if zoning doesn't come through uh
with a a safe a health or safety
concern
they can appeal the the zoning decision
but what is that
agreement
>> you know it's not automatic
but it does give you a way around the
town zoning regulations Yeah.
>> And she's got some ice departments out
there now. Certainly, uh, most people
don't even know they exist out there.
>> But I don't think it gives them cart
branch to say, "All right, he's going to
throw out of it."
>> But while there'd be some challenges, I
think it'd be good for the town, too.
You know, get
the board component to it,
it can be approved. Yep.
by court.
>> Okay. Anything else?
That's it. I just want to let you guys
>> Thanks.
>> Yeah.
>> Thanks for sharing. Yeah, it's good to
see
make a motion to
>> awesome. Second 8:35 on
>> Thanks for
music.